java c
ECO4217 Monetary Policy Making 
2024 Fall 
MONETARY POLICY MAKING — Project Report Instruction 
December 2, 2024
1 Logistics Congratulations!   You   have   finished   two   midterm   tests   and   all   the   quizzes,i.e.,   most   of   the   coursework.    This project   report   is   the   last   piece   for   your   evaluation.   You   have   one   week   to   finish   the   report.   The   deadline   for   submission   is Dec 11, at 14:30 exactly.      Be   sure   to   submit   your   report   on   time.      As   we   have   agreed,   late submissions   will   be   penalized.This   report’s   format   is   problem-solving.    In   class,   we   focused   on   the   operation   and   impact   of   monetary   policies.    We   did   not   talk   much   about   the   design   of   monetary   policies,   i.e.,   how   the   central   bank   should   do monetary   policy-making.   This   report   aims   to   complete   this   missing   piece.    Through   this   exercise, we   will   see why   good   monetary   policy-making   is   hard   at   some   fundamental   level.Think   about   this   problem   using   the   concepts   and   methodologies   you   learned   in   class,   and   present   your work   as   much   as   you   can.      Discussions   between   students   are   encouraged,   but   individual   report   writing   is required. Copy-and-paste work will be assigned zero points! 
2 Motivation Think   about   this.    A   professor   cares   about   students   learning   something   and,   in   addition,   about   them   being   happy.   To   motivate   students   to   learn,   at   the   beginning   of   the   semester,   the   professor   may   announce   that   the class   content   is   difficult   and   that   students   can   pass   only   by   studying   very   hard.    However, when   the   professor has   to   give   grades   at   the   end   of the   semester,   should   the   professor   enforce   his   rules   and   standards   strictly?   Probably   not.   Because   how   much the   students   have   learned   is   fixed   and will   no   longer be   affected   by   grades.   But,   you   can   always   make   students   happier   by   inflating   the   evaluation.       Taking    this   into   consideration,   however,   students   may   not   take   the   professor’s   announcement   (threat)   very   seriously   at   the   very   beginning.Monetary   policy-making   shares   this   logic.    Suppose   low   inflation   is   desirable   for   society   in   the   long   run,   and   so   the   Fed   announces   that   it   intends   to   achieve   such   a   target.       Observing   this    announcement,   wage   contracts   are   made   in   the   private   sector.   Now,   does   the   Fed   want   to   carry   out   the   low   inflation   policy   after   wage   contracts   have   been   signed?   No!   By   increasing   the   inflation   rate   (expansionary   monetary   policy),   the Fed   can   reduce   the   real   wage   and   stimulate   the   economy.      Considering   this,   the   private   sector   would   not believe   the   low   inflation   target   in   the   first   place.This   is   actually   the   contribution   of Kydland   and   Prescott   (1977),   and   helped   them   earn   the   Nobel   Prize   in   2004 “for   their   contributions   to   dynamic   macroeconomics:    the   time   consistency   of economic policy   and   the   driving   forces   behind   business   cycles”   .    Digest   the   idea   a   bit,      and   solve   the   following   exercise   step   by   step.   This   exercise   is   a   simplified   version   of   Kydland   and   Prescott   (1977).
3 Exercise The   starting   point   is   the supply curve we   introduced   in   classπ   =   πe   +   λ(Y −   YP)
where   YP    is   the   potential   output,   π   e    is   the   expected   inflation   of the   private   sector   (or   the   public),   and   λ   is   the   responsiveness   of inflation   to   the   output   gap.    Note   that   we   omit   the   supply   shock   here.    In   the   lecture, we emphasize the   interpretation of the supply   curve   ashow   the   output   gap   shapes   inflation.    In this   exercise,   it   is   useful   to   think   the   other   way   around.   Note   that   we   can   write   the   supply   curve   as   follows.Y -   Y   P      = λ/1(π − πe)                                                                                            (1-1)where λ1can be thought of as the responsiveness of the output gap to inflation surprises.   Therefore, there   will   be   a   positive   output   gap   if inflation   is   higher   than   expected.
Suppose   that   the   Fed   has   the   following loss function,   which   can   be   thought   of   as   the   negative   of   the social   welfare   functionL(π,   Y   ) = (π -   πO   )2   +   η(Y -   YO   )2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1-2)where   YO    is the   output target,   π   O      is the   inflation   target,   and   η   reflects   the   Fed’s   relative   weights   on   output   stabilization.   A higher η   means the Fed   puts   more   weight   on   output   stabilization   over   inflation   stabilization.   π   O      and   YO      are   what   the   Fed   thinks   is   the   best   for   the   economy.    The   Fed   tries   to   minimize   the   loss   function.   Without   loss   of generality,   we   assume   π   O    = 0,   i.e.,   the   Fed   has   a   zero   inflation   target.The   structure   of the   game,   including   the   value   of YP      and   YO ,   are   all   public   information.    For   simplicity,   we   think   that   the   Fed   can   directly   choose   the   leve代 写ECO4217 Monetary Policy Making 2024 FallSQL
代做程序编程语言l   of   inflation.    The   game   between   the   Fed   and   the   private sector   (the   public)   is   as   follows.
1.    The   Fed   announces   an   inflation   target   π   F .
2.      The   private   sector,   after   observing π F ,   forms   an   inflation   expectation π e.
3.    The   Fed   chooses π to   minimize   the   loss   function.
4.    Production   and   social   welfare   realize.To   complete the description of the environment,   we   must   specify   how   the   private   sector’s   inflation   expec-   tations are formed.   Here, we adopt the notion of perfect foresight that we introduced in the   first   class,   that   the   private   sector’s   inflation   expectation   must   turn   out   to   be   exactly   correct.      Therefore,   unless   otherwise   specified,   we   have   assumption   I   as   follows.
Assumption I: πe= π                                                                                           (1-3)A   second   assumption   we   will   always   maintain   is   that   the   target   output   YO    is   higher   than   the   potential   output YP .   A defense to this assumption could be   that   the   potential   output   is   too   low   for   various   distortions   and   frictions   in   the   economy.
Assumption II: YO > YP                                                                   (1-4)Make   sure   you   fully   understand   the   environment, and   answer   the   following   questions.    (Suggestive   answers for   questions   1-3   are   given   to   you.    I   recommend   you    think   about   them   by   yourself first   and   still   show   your   work   in   your   own   words.)
1.   What   is   the unconstrained social   optimal   inflation   and   output?   Note   here   that “unconstrained”   means you   can   specify   inflation   and   output   directly   and   not   be   constrained   by   the   supply   curve.
2.    Suppose   the   Fed   has   a commitment technology,   i.e.,   it   can   creditably   promise   that   it   will   enforce   the   announced   level   of   inflation.   Find   out   the   equilibrium   π   F ,   π   ,   π   e   ,   Y   ,   and   L.
3.    Now,   suppose   the   Fed   does   not   have   any   commitment   technologies.    If the   Fed   still   announces   the   π   F      you   found   in   the   previous   question,   does   it   have   an   incentive   to   deviate   later?   Find   out   L   in   the   case that   the   Fed   announces   π   F      you   found   in   the   previous   question   and   the   private   sector   believes   the   Fed, but   the   Fed   deviates   in   the   end.   Note   here   you   need   to   abandon   the   perfect   foresight   assumption.
4.    Solve   for   the   equilibrium   π   F ,   π   ,   π   e   ,   Y   ,   and   L   when   there   are   no   commitment   technologies   and   perfect   foresight   holds.
5.    Redo   1-4   with   π   O    > 0.    Feel   free   to   make   necessary   assumptions   if needed.
6.      Read   this   Vox   article   on   Paul   Volcker’s   fight   against   inflation   (click here).   Use   what   you   have   learned from   this   exercise,   analyze   (verbally)   why   Volcker   could   successfully   curb   the   inflation   in   the   1980s.
7.    (optional,   try   this   one   only   if you   are   interested)   Note   that   the   Fed’s   attitude   η   is   important.    In   the   above   analysis, we   assume   η   is   fixed   and   publicly   known.    However,   in   reality, the   public   may   not   know whether   the   Fed   is   weak   (with   a   high   η)   or   strong   (with   a   low   η)   in   fighting   inflation,   i.e.,   η   can   be private information.   Therefore, the Fed may care   about   its   reputation   in   a   repeated   game   (think   about   Paul   Volcker   in   the   1980s).    In   other   words, a   weak   Fed   may   have   the   incentive   to   pretend   to   be   a   strong one   if it   sufficiently   cares   about   the   future.   Try   extending   the   above   model   to   illustrate   this   idea.
4 Suggestive Answers 
1.    Unconstrained   social   optimum   means   π   = 0   and   Y   = YO .   Therefore,   L = 0.
2.    Under   commitment,   π   = πF ,   and   π   e    = π   F .   The   game   is   reduced   to   a   one-shot   game.   The   loss   function
L =   π2   +   η(YP   -   YO   )2
To   minimize   it,   the   Fed   will   choose   π   = 0 = π   F    = π   e.    Output   Y   = YP         and   L   = η(YP      - YO   )2   .    Note   the social   loss   here   is   higher   than   the   unconstrained   optimum.
3.   Without   commitment   technologies, the   game   is   dynamic.   A   common   routine   for   thinking   about   dynamic problems   is   to   use   backward   induction.   According   to   the   question,   the   public   naively   believes   the   Fed, i.e.,   π   e   = 0,   and   therefore,   Y   = Y   P   + π   .   Use   backward   induction,   the   loss   function   will   be
L   =   π2   +   η(Y -   YO   )2       
       = π2 + η(YP + λ/1π − YO)2Now   we   see   the   Fed’s   motive   to   deviate:    by      increasing   inflation,   there   is   a   gain   in   production.      As-   sumption II   is   important here:    only when the potential   output   is   too   low   for   the   Fed   can   the   deviation   be   justified.      To   find   the   optimal   π,   it’s   convenient   to   use   some   calculus.      If   you   are   unfamiliar   with   calculus,   the   high   school   method   for   quadratic   functions   can   also   do   the   job.    Either   way,   we   end   up getting   π   = η+λ2/ηλ (YO      - YP   )   >   0.      Note   that   the   deviated   inflation   is   higher   than   zero,   and   output   is higher   than   YP.




         
加QQ：99515681  WX：codinghelp  Email: 99515681@qq.com
